# Nvim and NvChad

> Write the code in NVim and debug in the Cursor.

## Nvim

```bash
sudo snap install nvim
set -gx PATH $PATH /snap/bin
```

## NcChad setup

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NvChad/starter ~/.config/nvim && nvim
```

- `:MasonInstallAll`, `:TSInstall java html css javascript`

### Common Commands

- `Space th` - Theme selection
- `Space v/h` - Terminal split
- `Space ch` - Cheatsheet
- `Space /` - Toggle comment
- `Space fa/ff` - Find files
- `Tab` - Switch buffer

- `<C-g>` - means "Control + g" = For accepting code completion.

:Lazy sync > H, I , U, S, C

### Tips

- while in insert mode, hold ctrl and then hjkl navigation keys to move cursor without leaving the insert mode.
- Ctrl + w then hjkl --> switch to terminal window.
or Ctrl + w(2 times for only two open window).

- in editor > press esc and space h > then write command immediately as the terminal opens in the insert mode already > exit and use hjkl to go at any line.
- ctrl + h or l -> switch window in nvim, a = before char(i before char)

- After changes done by ai agent in code editor, run :MasonInstallAll > :Lazy sync in nvim.

- I wasted huge time setting up java language server in neovim but i could not setup earlier. 
Today on 28-Feb-25, I installed and used windsurf and selected Claude 3.7 sonnet and it fixed the issue just with the prompt without my manual file changes. I opened nvim folder with the windsurf agentic ai code editor and ask to see the folders and files to analyze. Then i asked to do changes i want and it automatically started doing things on its own. The agent had access to the internet it followed the updated method from link i given. I am impressed.

- To fix/Troubleshoot any issue, open the Files directory with agentic ai code editor for context awareness to fix the problem efficiently.